# Project: Data Lake
## Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

## Project Motive
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. You'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.

## How to run
* To run this project in local mode, update the file dl.cfg in the root of this project with the following data:

* KEY=YOUR_AWS_ACCESS_KEY
* SECRET=YOUR_AWS_SECRET_KEY

* Create an S3 Bucket named "something" where output results will be stored  and   update it in etl.py in the main function under 'output'

* Finally, run the following command:
  python etl.py

## Project Datasets
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
#### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

## Schema for Song Play Analysis
Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

#### Fact Table
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
#### Dimension Tables
users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday